<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2
  PUBLIC "-//TEI P4//DTD Main DTD Driver File//EN"
  "http://www.tei-c.org/P4X/DTD/tei2.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % TEI.XML          "INCLUDE" >
<!ENTITY % TEI.dictionaries "INCLUDE" > 
<!ENTITY % TEI.linking      "INCLUDE" >
<!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED >
<!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED >
]>
<TEI.2>

  <teiHeader>

    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>Lonely Braces Testcases</title>
	<author>Michael Bunk &lt;kleinerwurm@gmx.net&gt;</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <editionStmt>
	<edition>0.1</edition>
      </editionStmt>
      <extent>only a handful of headwords</extent>
      <publicationStmt>
	<publisher>FreeDict</publisher>
	<availability>
	  <p>Copyright (C) 2005 Michael Bunk &lt;kleinerwurm@gmx.net&gt;</p>
	  <p>GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE</p>
	  <p>This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
	    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
	    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
	    (at your option) any later version.</p>
	  <p>This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	    GNU General Public License for more details.</p>
	  <p>You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
	    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
	    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.</p>
	</availability>
	<date>2005</date>
        <pubPlace>http://freedict.org/</pubPlace>	
      </publicationStmt>

      <seriesStmt>
	<title>free dictionaries</title>
      </seriesStmt>

      <notesStmt>
        <note type="status">testing</note>
      </notesStmt>
			    
      <sourceDesc>
	<p>Home: <xptr url="http://freedict.org/"/></p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>

    <encodingDesc>
      <projectDesc>
        <p>This dictionary comes to you through nice people making it
          available for free and for good. It is part of the FreeDict project,
          http://www.freedict.org / http://freedict.de. This
          project aims to make available many translating dictionaries
          for free. Your contributions are welcome!</p>
      </projectDesc>
    </encodingDesc>

    <revisionDesc>
      <change>
	<date>2005-06-23</date>
	<respStmt>
	  <resp>FreeDict Maintainer</resp>
	  <name>Michael Bunk</name>
	</respStmt>
	<item>Wrote these testcases.</item>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>

  <text>
    <body>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>(</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should be found.</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>a { without counterpart</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should be found as well.</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>a valid headword</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>But a broken translation. &lt;</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>a valid headword</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>But an as well broken translation. ></tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>valid headword without any braces</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should not be found.</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form><orth>valid headword (with allowed corresponding braces)</orth></form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should not be found. But since braces should be avoided,
	we could emit a warning...</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form>
	  <orth>This is a pathologic example (BTW, phrases as headwords are
	    something disputable).</orth>
	  <pron>The problem (with this element {content)} ist, that different
	    brace types nest incorrectly.</pron>
	</form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should be found, but cannot.</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form>
	  <orth>Did I mention it would be nice (to</orth>
	  <pron>be able to automatically determine) test success or failure?</pron>
	</form>
	<trans><tr>This entry should be found.</tr></trans>
      </entry>

      <entry>
        <form>
	  <orth>Many elements</orth>
	</form>
	<trans><tr>The</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>bug</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>can</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>be</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>found</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>only</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>in</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>the</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>last</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>"tr"</tr></trans>
	<trans><tr>element {</tr></trans>
      </entry>

    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
