<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="eng-pol.css"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="freedict-P5.rng" type="xml"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI SYSTEM "freedict-P5.dtd">
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" version="5.0">
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>English - Polish Piotrowski+Saloni/FreeDict dictionary</title>
        <respStmt>
          <resp>co-author of the original TeX/print version</resp>
          <name>Tadeusz Piotrowski</name>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <resp>co-author of the original TeX/print version</resp>
          <name>Zygmunt Saloni</name>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <resp>converted from TeX to SGML by</resp>
          <name>Katarzyna Głowińska</name>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <resp>converted from TeX to SGML by</resp>
          <name>Marcin Woliński</name>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <resp>converted from SGML to TEI XML by</resp>
          <name xml:id="bansp">Piotr Bański</name>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <!-- for the freedict database -->
          <resp>Maintainer</resp>
          <name ref="#bansp">Piotr Bański</name>
        </respStmt>
      </titleStmt>
      <editionStmt>
        <edition>0.2</edition>
        <!-- description of this particular edition; paste the old one at the bottom of the change log entry for that version  -->
        <respStmt>
          <resp>The first TEI P5 version: converted from an XML-ised SGML version (see changelogs for details).</resp>
          <name>Piotr Bański</name>
        </respStmt>
      </editionStmt>
      <!-- KEEP THIS UP TO DATE -->
      <extent>16362 headwords</extent>
      <publicationStmt>
        <publisher>FreeDict</publisher>
        <availability>
          <p>The FreeDict application is available under the terms of the <ref
              target="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">GNU General Public License,
            version 3.0 or any later version</ref>. In addition, the textual content of the dictionary is
            licensed under <ref target="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html">GNU Free Documentation
              License ver. 1.2 or any later version</ref>.</p>
        </availability>
        <date when="2010-05-06">6 May 2009</date>
        <pubPlace><ref target="http://freedict.org/">http://freedict.org/</ref></pubPlace>
        <idno type="SVN">$Id$</idno>
      </publicationStmt>
      <notesStmt>
        <note type="status">big enough to be useful</note>
      </notesStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>The FreeDict dictionary was converted from an SGML version of <q>Nowy Słownik
            angielsko-polski</q> (New English-Polish Dictionary) by <name>Tadeusz Piotrowski</name>
          and <name>Zygmunt Saloni</name> (1992). Warszawa: Editions Spotkania.
          ISBN-83-85195-81-5.</p>
        <p>The dictionary was created in TeX and converted to SGML by <name>Katarzyna
        Głowińska</name> and <name>Marcin Woliński</name> of the University of Warsaw.</p>
        <p>Idarex codes were added to it (possibly by Tadeusz Piotrowski and/or his students).</p>
        <p>The GNU release was facilitated by <name>Janusz S. Bień</name> of the University of
          Warsaw.</p>
        <p>The authors' licensing statement is included as PDF in the etc/ directory (the TEI
          version mentioned there is a different version produced by students of the University of
          Warsaw; that version was not used in the creation of the FreeDict dictionary).</p>
        <p>See the revisionDesc and the ChangeLog file for more details.</p>
        <p>The TeX, SGML and XML-ised SGML versions (the latter accompanied by an XSLT conversion
          script by Piotr Bański, included for verifiability and reproducibility of the results) are
          released together with release 0.1 of this dictionary.[note: the script appears to have been
          misplaced or overwritten, it will be added when/if found).</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <encodingDesc>
      <projectDesc>
        <p>This dictionary comes to you through nice people making it available for free and for good. It is part of the <ref target="http://www.freedict.org">FreeDict project</ref>. This project aims to make many translating dictionaries available for free. Your contributions are welcome!</p>
      </projectDesc>
      <tagsDecl>
        <!-- for each gi, its values are listed, with a pointer to the ontology interface -->
        <namespace name="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xml:base="../shared/">
          <tagUsage gi="pos">
            <list n="values" type="bulleted">
              <item xml:id="tag_N" ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_noun">N</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_noun">N Comp</item>
              <item xml:id="tag_V" ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_verb">V</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_verb">V Mod</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_verb">V Phras</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_verb">V Refl</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_adj">Adj</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_adv">Adv</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_num">Num</item>
              <item ana="FreeDict_ontology.xml#f_pos_prep">Prep</item>
              <item>Inter</item>
              <item>Interj</item> <!-- typo -->
              <item>Det</item>
              <item>Conj</item>
              <item>Pron</item>
            </list>
          </tagUsage>
<!--          <tagUsage gi="subc">
            <list n="values" type="bulleted">
              <item corresp="#tag_V">Phras</item>
              <item corresp="#tag_V">Mod</item>
              <item corresp="#tag_N">Comp</item>
              <item corresp="#tag_V">Refl</item> <!-\- ?? -\->
            </list>
          </tagUsage>
          the 'subc' field does not exist in this dictionary yet 
-->        </namespace>
      </tagsDecl>
    </encodingDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change n="0.2" who="#bansp" when="2010-05-11">
        <list type="bulleted">
          <head>Version 0.2, <date>6 May 2010</date>. Changes by <name>Piotr Bański</name>:</head>
            <item>added more information to the header,</item>
            <item>anchored some of the POS values in the FreeDict interface to GOLD/ISO DCR (this is the reason for the version number change),</item>
            <item>prepared the representation for the so far non-existent &lt;subc> (subcategorization) fields; for the time being "V Phras", etc. are used as an atomic POS that are aligned with the corresponding simple POS.</item>
        </list>
        </change>
      <change n="0.1" who="#bansp" when="2010-05-06">
        <list type="bulleted">
          <head>Version 0.1, <date>6 May 2010</date>. Converted by: <name>Piotr Bański</name>; brief list of changes:</head>
          <item>converted SGML files to UTF-8;</item>
          <item>converted the transcription codes to IPA;</item>
          <item>created an XML DTD to validate the dictionary as XML, split all letters into separate files (e.g. "xyz" used to be a single file);</item>
          <item>very slightly corrected/modified the post-SGML version (it is released as one of the packages in version 0.1);</item>
          <item>converted codes into letters with diacritics in UTF-8;</item>
          <item>added non-diacritic versions to headwords with diacritics, to facilitate searches (e.g. <mentioned>pate</mentioned> to <mentioned>pâté</mentioned>; around 40 additions);</item>
          <item>the only lexicographic intrusion was splitting <mentioned>protégé</mentioned>/<mentioned>protégée</mentioned> to make them analogical to <mentioned>fiancé</mentioned>/<mentioned>fiancée</mentioned>, to make it easier to process them (note the difference in the POS: <mentioned>protégé</mentioned>/<mentioned>protégée</mentioned> is categorised as Adj, <mentioned>fiancé</mentioned> is N);</item>
          <item>wrote a conversion script to TEI XML (included with the post-SGML version as partial documentation);</item>
          <item>created this header, xincluding the individual letter files, so that the dictionary is easier to maintain;</item>
          <item>there are still a lot of fixes to do -- e.g. add entries missing in the SGML version (e.g. <mentioned>can</mentioned>! etc.) from the TeX version (a list by Radek Moszczyński is provided), fix POS (typo in inter(j), V Refl), unify the idarexen, join equivalents that were split around the '/' (km/h initially ended up as separate strings), split some ambiguous notes (e.g. 'gloss', see the conversion script for comments) into separate subclasses, split some comma-separated variant transcriptions into separate elements; separate regional variants Br/US from e.g. Latin expansions of some abbreviations (cf. <mentioned>cf.</mentioned>), which should not be located by headword queries (in this case, a query for <mentioned>confer</mentioned>);</item>
          <item>some entries that were proper subparts of other entries (mostly US spellings) were eliminated from the TEI version (but preserved in the post-SGML XML version) - the full list can be found in the XSLT conversion script;</item>
          <item>a separate item is extending the dictionary with an XML representation of idarexen (described in a paper by Bański and Moszczyński, LREC-08);</item>
          <item>the companion volume (pol-eng) awaits conversion from the TeX source;</item>
        </list>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <body>
      <include href="letters/a.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/b.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/c.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/d.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/e.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/f.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/g.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/h.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/i.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/j.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/k.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/l.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/m.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/n.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/o.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/p.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/q.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/r.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/s.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/t.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/u.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/w.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/v.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/x.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/y.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
      <include href="letters/z.xml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI>
<!-- 
  This XML application is distributed under GNU GPL 3.0 (or any later version).
  
  The textual content of the dictionary has additionally been released by the original authors under GNU GFDL 1.2 (or any later version).
  
  This document is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms 
  of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation. This program is 
  distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;  without even the implied 
  warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
  General Public License for more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the 
  
  Free Software Foundation, 
  Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
  Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA. 
-->
